+++
title = "Heightened condition-dependence of the sexual transcriptome as a function of genetic quality in Drosophila melanogaster head tissue"
date = "2019-07-11"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Jeffery J. Mondak","Jon Hurwitz","Mark Peffley","Paul Testa"]`.
authors = ["Malacrinò A", "Kimber C", "Brengdahl M", "Friberg U"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Proceedings of the Royal Society: B"
publication_short = "Proc B"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Theory suggests sexual traits should show heightened condition-dependent expression. This prediction has been tested extensively in experiments where condition has been manipulated through environmental quality. Condition-dependence as a function of genetic quality has, however, only rarely been addressed, despite its central importance in evolutionary theory. To address the effect of genetic quality on expression of sexual and non-sexual traits, we here compare gene expression in Drosophila melanogaster head tissue between flies with intact genomes (high condition) and flies carrying a major deleterious mutation (low condition). We find that sex-biased genes show heightened condition-dependent expression in both sexes, and that expression in low condition males and females regresses towards a more similar expression profile. As predicted, sex-biased expression was more sensitive to condition in males compared to females, but surprisingly female-biased, rather than male-biased, genes show higher sensitivity to condition in both sexes. Our results thus support the fundamental predictions of the theory of condition-dependence when condition is a function of genetic quality."

abstract_short = ""

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = "procb.png"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Links (optional)
url_pdf = "https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rspb.2019.0819"
url_code = "https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/suppl/10.1098/rspb.2019.0819"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
